Deprecation docs (#12452)
conda/conda: docs/source/dev-guide/deprecations.md

from conda.deprecations import deprecated

@deprecated("23.9", "24.3")
def bar():
    ...
```

```{code-block} pycon
:caption: Example invocation.
>>> import foo
>>> foo.bar()
<stdin>:1: PendingDeprecationWarning: foo.bar is pending deprecation and will be removed in 24.3.
```

As a minimum we must always specify two versions:

1. the future deprecation release in which the function, method, or property will be marked as deprecated; prior to that the feature will show up as pending deprecation (which we treat as a commenting period), and
2. the subsequent deprecation release in which the function, method, or property will be removed from the code base.

Additionally, you may provide an addendum to inform the user what they should do instead:

```{code-block} python
:caption: Example file, `foo.py`.
from conda.deprecations import deprecated

@deprecated("23.9", "24.3", addendum="Use `qux` instead.")
def bar():
    ...
```

```{code-block} pycon
:caption: Example invocation.
>>> import foo
>>> foo.bar()
<stdin>:1: PendingDeprecationWarning: foo.bar is pending deprecation and will be removed in 24.3. Use `qux` instead.
```

## Keyword Arguments

:::{warning}

> Deprecating or renaming a positional argument is unnecessarily complicated and so it isn't supported. It is recommended to either (1) devise a custom way of detecting usage of a deprecated positional argument (e.g., type checking) and using the `conda.deprecations.deprecated.topic` function (see [Topics](#topics)) or (2) deprecate the function/method itself and defining a new function/method without the deprecated argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecating or renaming a positional argument is unnecessarily complicated and is not supported. Instead, it is recommended to either (1) devise a custom way of detecting usage of a deprecated positional argument (e.g., type checking) and use the `conda.deprecations.deprecated.topic` function (see [Topics](#topics)) or (2) deprecate the function/method itself and define a new function/method without the deprecated argument.
```

[cep9]: https://github.com/conda-incubator/ceps/blob/main/cep-9.md

# Deprecations

Conda abides by the Deprecation Schedule defined in [CEP-9][cep9]. To help make deprecations as much of a no-brainer as possible we provide several helper decorators and functions facilitate the correct deprecation process.

## Functions, Methods, and Properties

The simplest use case is for deprecating any function, method, or property:

```python
from conda.deprecations import deprecated

@deprecated("23.9", "24.3")
def foo():
    ...
```

As a minim we must always specify two versions:

> 1. the future deprecation release in which the function, method, or property will be marked as deprecated, prior to that the feature will show up as pending deprecation (which we treat as a commenting period), and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. the future deprecation release in which the function, method, or property will be marked as deprecated; prior to that the feature will show up as pending deprecation (which we treat as a commenting period), and
```

2. the subsequent deprecation release in which the function, method, or property will be removed from the code base.

Additionally, you may provide an addendum to inform the user what they should do instead:

```python
from conda.deprecations import deprecated

@deprecated("23.9", "24.3", addendum="Use `bar` instead.")
def foo():
    ...
```

## Keyword Arguments

> !!! warning
>     Deprecating or renaming a positional argument is unnecessarily complicated and so it isn't supported. It is recommended to either (1) devise a custom way of detecting usage of a deprecated positional argument (e.g., type checking) and using the `conda.deprecations.deprecated.topic` function (see [Topics](#topics)) or (2) deprecate the function/method itself and defining a new function/method without the deprecated argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> :warning: **Deprecating or renaming a positional argument is unnecessarily complicated and so it isn't supported.** It is recommended to either (1) devise a custom way of detecting usage of a deprecated positional argument (e.g., type checking) and using the `conda.deprecations.deprecated.topic` function (see [Topics](#topics)) or (2) deprecate the function/method itself and defining a new function/method without the deprecated argument.
```
Even though the `!!! warning` syntax usually works on Markdown documents, it doesn't seem supported in GitHub. Please see the screenshot below for how it renders:
![Screen Shot 2023-03-13 at 4 01 57 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28930622/224821539-c696fa54-3334-4228-be4b-0366eb619824.png)

Indenting the line and adding a warning emoji ⚠️ is the alternative syntax being suggested here.
